# Project Title:- "AUTOMATED CRYPTOGRAPHIC FILE TRANSFER"


# Aim of the repository
This is the repository maintained for the progress report of the work done in the each day in the Minor Project 1.


# Problem Statement
The time of data is additionally the period of advanced data resources which is significant in these days and age. As innovation propels, there is an expansion in the measure of information being moved over the system. One of the chief difficulties that are confronted is security. As a great deal of private information is being moved day in day out to/from the organizations, there are conceivable outcomes that the information might be lost unintentionally or taken deliberately. This isn't dependable as it could be a genuine danger to associations. Security is accomplished by encryption and answer for this issue. The expanding consciousness of security framework and interchanges powerlessness has brought cryptography [4-6] out of its customary shadow world and places it into the front line of modern computer technology.
This project aims to transfer a file peer-to-peer from one computer to another computer using C language. It provides the needed authentication for the file which is being transferred in the network transmission. By implementing the Server-Client technology, we can use a File Transfer Protocol mechanism and through socket programming i.e. port number, the end-user can send and receive the encrypted and decrypted file. This project aims to transfer a file securely between computers. In this project, the elements of security are needed because it ensures that files are not captured or altered by anyone on the same network which is the important task for securing the files. Whenever you transmit files over a network, there is a good chance your data will be encrypted by encryption techniques. In this project, an AES or RSA algorithm is used to encrypt or decrypt the file that needs to transfer to another computer. The encrypted file is sent to a receiver and will be decrypted before the user can open the file. This project makes use of an AES  or RSA algorithm because it is fast and secure for transferring a file. The file is expected to be transferred securely, safely, and without being modified or hacked.

